Перевод текста из файла: ES.txt
Breaking with diplomatic tradition with decades of seniority, the president-elect of the united States, Donald Trump, spoke directly with the president of Taiwan, Tsai Ing-wen. The talk generated...<p>Breaking up with a diplomatic tradition with decades of seniority, the president-elect of the united States, Donald Trump, spoke directly with the president of Taiwan, Tsai Ing-wen. The talk generated a furious response from China and seems to cast uncertainty on u.s. policy toward Asia.This might be the first time in history that a president or president-elect, of the united States talk directly with a leader of Taiwan, an island, self-governed, with which Washington broke off diplomatic relations in 1979.In their first comments, which seemingly sought to minimize the importance of the call, the chinese minister of Foreign affairs, Wang Yi, said on Saturday that the contact between the leading taiwanese and Trump was "only a small tip of Taiwan," and that he did not think that would change the u.s. policy toward China, according to the tv station Phoenix TV of Hong Kong."The policy of 'one China' is the cornerstone for the healthy development of relations between China and the united States, and we hope that this political basis is not affected or damaged", said Wang was quoted as saying.Washington has adhered to the policy of "one China" since 1979, when it passed its diplomatic recognition of the government of Taiwan to the communist government in mainland China. According to this, Washington recognizes Beijing as the representative, but maintains links to non-official with Taiwan.A statement from the transition team, Trump said that the gop spoke with president taiwanese, who offered their congratulations."During the conversation, they pointed to the close links in the economic, political and security... between Taiwan and the united States. Trump also praised Tsai for having become president of Taiwan earlier this year", added in the press release.Trump later wrote on Twitter: "The president of Taiwan CALLED ME". The employer complained on the social network of the reactions to the conversation: "it Is interesting how the united States sells Taiwan billions of dollars in military equipment but I should not accept a call of greeting".Trump and Tsai discussed issues that affect Asia and the future of relations between Washington and Taiwan, explained for his part the office of president of the island."The president (of Taiwan) hopes to strengthen the relationships and bilateral contacts as well as to establish closer cooperation ties," said a press release.Tsai said in addition to Trump that he hoped that the united States supports Taiwan's participation in international issues, added the office, in an apparent reference to China's efforts to isolate the country from global institutions such as the United Nations.He said that both also "shared ideas and concepts" about "to promote internal economic development and strengthen the national defense" to improve the lives of the common people.On the other hand, the department spokesman, Alex Huang, said that the relations of Taiwan with China, and the links "healthy" between Taiwan and the united States can be developed in parallel. "There is No conflict (on that)," he told reporters in Taipei.The White House learned of the conversation when it had already happened, said a high official of the government of Barack Obama, who requested anonymity for the sensitivity of diplomatic relations.The embassy of China in Washington, its Foreign Ministry in Beijing and the Office of Taiwan Affairs did not respond to requests for comment.The phone call of Friday is the most notable example so far of the way in which Trump has shrugged off the conventions of diplomatic since he won the presidential election on the 8th of November. Apparently, it held telephone conversations with foreign leaders without the orientation normal of the State Department, overseeing u.s. diplomacy."The president-elect Trump is simply reacting impulsively, trying to take phone calls with congratulatory messages from leaders across the world without taking into account the implications," said Bonnie Glaser, a consultant for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D. C. Glaser, said that a so-called "totally unprecedented" or, at least, had never been released publicly. It is expected that Beijing will respond with a reminder to Trump the commitments the united States has done with China over Taiwan, he said.Probably Beijing will try to identify if these signs are an attempt by Trump to alter the policy that the united States has been applied since a long time ago with respect to Taiwan, said Glaser."Hope that this has been a false step, but I think that, in private, definitely will seek to educate this incoming president and ensure that you understand the sensitive nature of the issue of Taiwan," he said.For decades, the status of Taiwan has been one of the most sensitive issues in the relations between China and the united States. China considers the island as a part of its territory is taken up again, to force if necessary, in case you look for the independence. For China, it is unacceptable that a leading taiwanese to be recognized as head of State.Lai reported from Taipei, Taiwan. The journalists from AP's Jonathan Lemire in New York; Matthew Pennington and Darlene Superville in Washington, and Henry Hou in Beijing contributed to this release.